# New_Eir_Android_App

NOTE: All I have left from this project is this demo, as I had assumed I would never need it again and deleted it to save storage space, a mis-step I will not be making again.

Task: I was tasked with creating an Android app for my senior design team's final project. The project was a device that utilized UV-C to clean the cooling coil of air conditioning systems to reduce the spread of viral infections such as COVID-19, as well as keep the cooling coil mold-free. This device had a lot of various sensors for detecting UV and CO2 levels, for example. These readings were stored in a Google Sheet, similar to a Microsoft Spreadsheet. I was tasked with finding a way to get that data to an Android application.

Action: Creating the application (app) was a completely new experience for me. I had to start from scratch and learn what it was that made an Android application work. After completing several in depth tutorials on the topic of making Android apps. After getting my grips with developing Android apps, I took a stab at utilizing APIs, but found that they were not working for me for a number of reasons. 
The first was that they were not working with my application because something, somewhere was not compatible and I could not find what it was. I tried to combat this with numerous forum searches and various other tutorial videos, but to no avail. I decided to explore alternatives and that led me to reason number two. The second reason it did not work for me was a different sense of the word "work". This solution was far too complicated and the issue could be resolved in a much simpler manner. 
I found that if I use an extension to convert that spreadsheet from a .csv file to a .json file, then have the app download that file from a set URL. Once it was received, I parsed through the file and set the data to display in a list. I went with a list because of the simplicity of its layout and the ability to easily append more data to the end of it.

  Video Explanation: In this video, you can start by clicking the app icon to open the app. From this point, you see a "REQUEST LATEST DATA" button and nothing else. However, a little later, the button is pressed and a short list appears under the button that is sorted as follows: List Position Number / Date (demo just shows "sample data"/ Reading 1, Reading 2, Reading 3. I click the button a few more times and more, short lists are appended to the bottom of the current one. This was done in order for the user to be able to quickly reference readings if they need to see how the data is changing and be able to compare to older data.
